AWS Global Infrastructure

1. Regions
	- Geographical location
2. Availability Zones
	- AZ is a collection of Datacentres
	- Each region will have its own AZs
	- The distance b/w each AZ is maintained at a minimum of 100 km
	- Each region will have atleast 3 AZs and a maximum of 6 AZs

The oldest region is N. Virginia - 2006 - its the first region launched by AWS
Singapore is the oldest region in Asia Pacific - 2010
Mumbai was launched in 2016
N. Virginia has 6 AZs
Mumbai & Hyderabad is having 3 AZs
As of 2024 we have 33 regions in AWS
As of 2024 we have 105 AZs in AWS

China has its own dedication region in AWS. This is only for Chinese

Whenever AWS launches any new service, it will first launch in N.Virginia region

Every region in AWS will have its own region code
	Mumbai - ap-south-1
		AZ1 - ap-south-1a
		AZ2 - ap-south-1b
		AZ3 - ap-south-1c

	Hyderabad - ap-south-2
		AZ1 - ap-south-2a
		AZ2 - ap-south-2b
		AZ3 - ap-south-2c

	N.Virginia - us-east-1
		AZ1 - us-east-1a
		AZ2 - us-east-1b
		AZ3 - us-east-1c
		AZ4 - us-east-1d
		AZ5 - us-east-1e
		AZ6 - us-east-1f

Accessing the AWS Account
3 ways;
	1. Console Access - 99%
	2. CLI Based - 1%
	3. Programmatic Access


Service 1: Simple Storage Service (S3)
S3 is one of the storage services available in AWS Cloud
S3 is the second service launched by AWS in 2006, March 14
SQS (Simple Queue Service) is the first service launched by AWS in 2004
S3 is used to store the data in the cloud

S3 Features;
Scalability - We can store any size of data (0 Bytes to PB) - Charges are applicable
Availability - At any given point of time, we can access our data stored in the AWS Cloud
Internet Access - To access the data in the cloud, it is mandatory to have internet connection
Latency - HDD (Data transfer speed is slow - low cost, Storage - high), SSD (Data transfer speed is very high - high cost, Storage - low)
			- S3 is SSD type
			- Low latency - high speed
			- High latency - low speed

Mumbai - 3 AZs (Uploading the data - ap-south-1a) - Based on the number of AZs in a region, AWS will maintain those many copies of the data
				Kastro.txt (ap-south-1a) -----> Kastro.txt (ap-south-1b), Kastro.txt (ap-south-1c)  
AWS will give us High Availability feature 

S3 - Free tier - Storage: 5GB
Maximum size of an S3 bucket - 5TB

S3 Terminology;
Buckets - Bucket is nothing but a folder
Objects - Object is nothing but a file

100 Buckets can be created for each AWS Account

In AWS we have all the services comes under two categories;
	1. Global service
	2. Region specific service

S3 is GLOBAL service, but the Buckets created are region specific.
Whenever we are creating an S3 bucket, the bucket name must be GLOBALLY UNIQUE
Account 1 - Kastro - S3 - Bucket name: Kastro
Account 2 - Kiran - S3 - Bucket name: Kastro

Whenever we upload any object into S3 bucket, each object will get its own URL which is known as Object URL. If you want to access the objects, we should use Object URL only.

Before deleting a bucket (which has some files), first delete the Objects and then only we can delete the bucket

In S3 we can create two types of buckets;
1. General purpose buckets - generally used
2. Directory buckets

By default, whenever we upload any object into the S3 bucket, they will be in PRIVATE Mode

Create bucket
Upload object
Explore the options of bucket and object
Access the object using Object URL - you cannot access the object

Making an object publicly accessible;
1. Enable ACL (Access Control List)
2. Turn off Block All Access
3. Make object using ACL

Deleting the object
Deleting the bucket

Static Website Hosting using S3 Service;
-----------------------------------------------------
Types of websites;
	1. Static website - thehindu.com ---- Hyderabad, Chennai, Pune, USA, Australia
	2. Dynamic website - Instagram.com/Kastro, Instagram.com/Praveen, Instagram.com/Kiran




































